h1. PyCardRPG

PyCardRPG is a Card-Based, Procedurally Generated RPG.  

h2. Card Based Character System

h3. Attributes

The basic abilities a unit has.  There are four types of Attribute:

* Strength: Power a unit has.  This directly relates to damage done by attacks.
* Intelligence: Smarts a unit has.  This limits the number of skills a unit has.
* Dexterity: A unit's nimbleness.  Directly relates to the armor value of the unit.
* Stamina: How well a unit handles fatigue and damage.

From the base attributes, some others are derived:

* Hit Points (HP): The amount of damage a unit can withstand before death.
* Action Points (AP): Points spent in the executing of actions.  

h3. Experience Points

Units are awarded Experience Points for defeating enemies and completing tasks that move them closer to their goal.  These Experience Points can be spent either on better Attributes or better Skills.

h3. Equipment Cards

All units in the game, characters and enemies both, have a set of slots that Equipment Cards can be added too.  These cards, along with the unit's base Attributes, set the basic statistics for the unit, while adding to the pool of Action Cards for use in the Action Deck.  

Each Equipment Card has specific Attribute and Skill requirements to use.

h3. Skill Cards

Skills are task specific aptitudes a unit has, which grant additional Action Cards to the unit's pool.  Each Skill has 5 levels, each one having a greater cost, but better modifiers and Action Cards.  The maximum number of different skills a unit can have is equal to the unit's intelligence.

Each Skill has specific Attribute requirements to learn, and the requirements grow as the unit gets better at that skill.  

h3. Action Cards

Each unit will have an Action Deck.  An Action Deck is exactly 40 Action Cards in size.  The maximum number of a single Action Card that can be in a deck is 4, except for _Attack_ Action Card which can be used in an unlimited fashion.  

Each Action Card cost a specific number of Action Points (AP) to play. Action Points accumulate at the rate of 1/10 of the maximum AP per turn.

A unit has 5 Action Cards in its' hand, of which they can play one each turn. Once that card is played, it is added to the Discard Pile.  If, at the end of a turn, the unit's hand is less than 5, another card is added to the hand from the unused Action Deck.  

When the Action Deck is empty, the cards in the Discard Pile are shuffled and put into the Action Deck.

h2. Special Thanks

Special thanks goes out to Squidi.net for putting up a bunch of "game ideas":http://www.squidi.net/three, and for "The Free Pixel Project":http://www.squidi.net/pixel. 

h2. License

"The Free Pixel Project":http://www.squidi.net/pixel created most of the awesome pixel art we use. Their art is licensed under a "Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 Unported License":http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/  

Everything else is (c) The PyCardRPG project, and licensed under the MIT License.